Document experiments data warehouse integration MVP (#10070)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/experiments/data-warehouse.mdx

---

> title: Data Warehouse

Reviewer: Just to make this a bit more searchable and distinct from people looking for the data warehouse. Nav can stay the same though.
```suggestion
title: Using data warehouse tables in experiments
```

---

> 🚧 **Note:** Data warehouse integration is currently considered in `beta`. We are keen to gather as much feedback as possible so if you try this out please let us know. You can email [daniel.b@posthog.com](mailto:daniel.@posthog.com), send feedback via the [in-app support panel](https://us.posthog.com#panel=support%3Afeedback%3Aexperiments%3Alow), or use one of our other [support options](/docs/support-options).

> Experiment metrics are always event-based: something happens at a certain point in time. If one of your data warehouse tables includes event-like data, you can use it as a primary or secondary metric for your trends experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluating experiment metrics always depends on events. They rely on something happening at a certain point in time. If one of your [data warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse) tables includes event-like data, you can use it as a primary or secondary metric for your trends experiment.
```

To use a data warehouse table with an experiment, you'll first need to join the 'events' table to your data warehouse table:

> 1. Navigate to Data warehouse and click on 'Add join' from the triple dot menu next to your table.
> 2. Join the 'events' table to your data warehouse table:
> 	a. Under 'Source Table Key', specify a column that holds the value of the `distinct_id` present for the `$feature_flag_called` event.
> 	b. Check 'Optimize for Experiments' to ensure only the most recent matching event is joined to your table.
> 	c. Under 'Source Timestamp Key', specify a column that represents the timestamp of the table row. It will be compared with the event timestamp to determine the most recent `$feature_flag_called` event for the row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [Data warehouse](https://us.posthog.com/data-warehouse) tab and click on **Add join** from the triple dot menu next to your table.
2. Join the `events` table to your data warehouse table:
    a. Under **Source Table Key**, specify a column that holds the value of the `distinct_id` present for the `$feature_flag_called` event.
    b. Check **Optimize for Experiments** to ensure only the most recent matching event is joined to your table.
    c. Under **Source Timestamp Key**, specify a column that represents the timestamp of the table row. It will be compared with the event timestamp to determine the most recent `$feature_flag_called` event for the row.
```

Reviewer: Fixing the styling :)
![CleanShot 2024-12-05 at 08 55 25@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b6f02df7-b153-4966-867f-dc76ef646dcd)

Author: > Fixing the styling :)

Brilliant, thanks!

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/add_join_light_fc0e4cab91.png"
  imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/add_join_dark_cb350f80ef.png"
  classes="rounded"
  alt="Screenshot of the triple dot menu to add a join"
/>

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/join_events_light_d3feed92bd.png"
  imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/join_events_dark_19308b52e9.png"
  classes="rounded"
  alt="Screenshot of the form to join the events table"
/>

> Once you've joined the 'events' table to your data warehouse table, you can use the data warehouse table in the experiment goal or as a secondary metric:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've joined the `events` table to your data warehouse table, you can use the data warehouse table in the experiment goal or as a secondary metric:
```

> 1. When picking an experiment goal, click on the 'Data warehouse tables' category and select your table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When picking an experiment goal, click on the **Data warehouse tables** category and select your table.
```

2. Specify the columns in your data warehouse table that represent the unique ID, the distinct ID, and the timestamp.

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/experiment_goal_light_c767c4f794.png"
  imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/experiment_goal_dark_7eedc50ffe.png"
  classes="rounded"
  alt="Screenshot of the form to assign a data warehouse table to an experiment goal"
/>

When you select a data warehouse table as an experiment goal or secondary metric, PostHog sees it as an 'events-like' table and is thus able to use it to calculate results.

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/experiment_results_light_ccc5eb3f68.png"
  imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/experiment_results_dark_38717c2c51.png"
  classes="rounded"
  alt="Screenshot of the experiment results"
/>

> The PostHog uses the join to the 'events' table to determine which variant a given data warehouse table row is associated with. For trends experiments, the most recent `$feature_flag_called` event before the row represents their active variant assignment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PostHog uses the join to the `events` table to determine which variant a given data warehouse table row is associated with. For trends experiments, the most recent `$feature_flag_called` event before the row represents their active variant assignment:
```

> Data Warehouse: timestamp=2024-01-03 12:00, distinct_id=user1
> Events:
> - 2024-01-02 12:00: (user1, variant='control')   <- This event will be joined

> > - 2024-01-03 18:00: (user1, variant='test')      <- Ignored (occurs after data warehouse timestamp)

Reviewer: Maybe a code block works better here?

Author: f3dfb4c28
